Environmental Product Declaration (EPD)
• The Product Category Rules (PCR) for Printers and Multi-Function Printing Units provide the technical requirements and  
guidance for an Environmental Product Declara tion (EPD).
• The EPD takes the LCA-derived information to assess the environmental performance of the p roducts over the life cycle, from  
cradle to grave. Using the guidance from the  PCR, the EPD standardizes how you communicate the LCA results.
• Lexmark uses software called GaBi to perform the life cycle assessment, and then to generate the EPD.
• Once the EPD is complete, it i s reviewed and certified by a 3rd party for completeness and accuracy.
What is the difference in Environmental Product Declaration (EPD)  vs. Product  Environmental Footprint (PEF)
Lexmark’s EPDs report on 6 environmental impact categories:  Global Warming Potential, Ozone Depletion Potential, Acidification 
Potential, Eutrophication Pote ntial, Fossil Fuel Depletion Potential, and Mineral Resource Depletion Potential
Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) method – is comparable  to the EPD method, but primarily used in Europe. The PEF can report on 
up to 16 environmental impact categories. 
Lexmark selected the EPD metho dology for EPEAT purposes. EPEAT (Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool) is a method for 
purchasers to evaluate the eff ect of a product on the environment.
Lexmark Product Lifecycle Assessments (LCA) 
csr.lexmark.com
LCA- Environmental Product  Declaration
A Life cycle  assessment is a standardized tool that evaluates  the environmental impact  of products throughout the entire 
life cycle.
 It analyzes and  quantifies the direct and  indirect environmental  burdens associated  with the product, a material, 
a process, or a system.

Key Take away i nformation
Global warming potential
• The primary information that most  customers seek is  in the Global  Warming Potential section  is the first 
environmental impact category  in the Interpretation of  the results section.
• Lexmark’s EPD is  broken into 3 phases: Printer  Manufacturing, Use Phase,  and the End-of-Life Phase
• The data  output for each of the 3 phases can  be analyzed  4 different ways (columns)
• The first 2 columns break out the results on a per 1,000-page basis.
• The final 2 columns break out the results on a per printer lifetime (5 years).
• Either method can include the paper carbon footprint effect, or not.
• Paper is the highest carbon footprint impact in the Use Phase.
Example: Maintenance Carbon Footprin t
Per Printer Lifetime Excluding Paper – Use 
Phase: 1.51E03 kg CO2 eq
Draw lines around Maintenance E
stimate % = 91% - 33% = 58%
58% x 1.51E03 = 875.8 kg CO2 eq
1.5% Waste treatment
7.5% Packaging
58% Maintenance
4% Energy
2% Distribution
27% Cartridges/toner
0.3% Waste treatment
81% Paper
1.4% Packaging
10.8% Maintenance
0.37% Distribution
5% Cartridges/toner
0.8% Energy
The carbon footprint results can be further broken down into various components or stages of the use phase.
Per printer lifeti me
including paper
Per printer lifetime not
including paper