Philips Product Carbon Footprint (PCF) Information Sheet 
 
 
Commercial Name LCD Monitor 
 
Model Number 276B1 
Issue Date 2021-2-17 
 
Product Environmental Attributes 
(a) Product Carbon Footprint Value: 541.33 kg of CO2e (see Note 1 below) 
(b) Product Picture: (c) Life Cycle Detail by Life Stage (Pie Chart): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Note 1: 
Disclaimer:  
All estimates of carbon footprint are uncertain.  
This information sheet contains a description of the carbon footprint data for this declared product, which is 
based on estimates of the current state of the product life cycle, but is subject to known or unknown risks or 
uncertainties, so actual results m ay be different from the statement.  
Note 2: 
This product is based on the PAS2050:2011 & ISO 14067:2018 standard for carbon footprint inventory and 
calculation. 
And this product use SimaPro 9. 1.0 for PCF calculation tool. The lifecycle impact assessment methodology 
follows the IPCC 100 -year Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment Method (IPCC 2013 GWP 100a) to 
calculate the CO2 emission equivalent of a product from raw material extraction to product disposal (Cradle to 
Grave). 
Note 3: 
This calculation was based upon a PHILIPS 276B1 with the assumptions and configuration described in the 
calculation assumptions in the next page.  
Note 4: 
This pie chart provides the percent contribution of the mean value for each element of the analysis for the full life 
cycle CO2e impacts of the product. If individual elements displaying 0% are less than 0. 1%. 
 
 
 
 
 Page 1 of 2 

PHILIPS Product Carbon Footprint (PCF) Information Sheet 
 
Assumption Table 
Category Element Unit Input 
 
 
 
Product 
Specifics 
Product Net Weight kg 7.12 
Form Factor no unit 2560 x 1440 
Screen Size inches 27 
Product Lifetime years 3 
Standby Mode &  Power-On Mode w 0.5 & 32 
Estimated standby hour & usage hour hr 8 & 8 
 Estimated total annual standby and power-on consumption kw 94.90 
  
Location 
Assembly Location  no unit CN 
Use Location no unit GLO 
 
 
 
 
Transport 
 from Assembly 
to Customer 
To country of use: by air  fraction 0 
To country of use: by ship  fraction 1 
To country of use: by rail  fraction 0 
To country of use: by truck  fraction 0 
In country of use: by air  fraction 0 
In country of use: by ship  fraction 0 
In country of use: by rail  fraction 0 
In country of use: by truck  fraction 1 
 
End of Life 
Waste incineration  % 5 
Material recycling  % 95 
The PCF value is calculated using the specific attributes above for assembly, use and transportation mode.  
Notes: 
Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) can be grouped into f ive categories which include Raw Material, Manufacture, Transport, Use, and End-of-
Life. Below is a brief description of each phase.  
Raw Material: This life cycle phase captures emissions generated during the extraction, production,  and transport of raw materials . 
Manufacture: This life cycle phase captures emissions ge nerated during the manufacture of subassemblies (including the product 
packaging) and product assembly.  
Transport: Emissions included in the distribute phase include all those generated during the air, ocean or land distribute of finished or 
semi-finished PHILIPS products between PHILIPS facilities and from PHILIPS facilities to customers.  
Use: In use energy consumption is calculated in acco rdance with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Energy Star® Typical 
Energy Consumption (TEC) methodology.  Calculated energy consumption is then used in combination with average emissions factors 
for the designated country of use to calculate emissions.  
End-of-life: The recycle rate is calculated based on the company's own calculated WEEE re cycle rate. It is also assumed that the 
balance of the product waste materials is disposed of by landfill. Emissions generated during the mechanical destruction, sep aration and 
transport of end of life materials are included in the calculation.  
                             Page 2 of 2